= activerrd

* http://github.com/adrianpike/activerrd

Based upon hard and most appreciated work by:
			David Bacher <drbacher at alum.mit.edu>
			Mark Probert <probertm at acm.org>  
			Miles Egan <miles at caddr.com>

== DESCRIPTION:

ActiveRRD is a tool for having an AR-ish wrapper around Round Robin Databases. Someday I might make this shinier, but for now I'm just going to get basic functionality so i can use it.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* Uh, it's incomplete. Make that *very* incomplete.

== SYNOPSIS:

	class FooRrd < Activerrd::Base
		rrd_key :user_id # :required => false
	
		rrd_step 30

		rrd_data_source 'load', :gauge, :heartbeat=>60, :min=>0, :max=>255
		rrd_data_source 'hits', :absolute, :heartbeat=>300, :min=>0, :max=>20000 # hits since the last load, since it's absolute
	
		rrd_archive :average, :steps=>100
		rrd_archive :max, :steps=>5, :rows=>36, :xff=>0.5
		rrd_archive :max, :steps=>50, :rows=>24
	end

	s = FooRrd.new
	s.load = 300
	s.hits = 20
	s.user_id = 'john smith'
	s.save

	s = FooRrd.new
	s.load=12
	s.hits=50200
	s.created_at=Time.new-2.minutes
	s.save

	FooRrd.find(:average,:start=>Time.new-1.week,:end=>Time.new,:resolution=>5)
	FooRrd.find(:max,:start=>Time.new-5.minutes)

	FooRrd.graph(:start=>Time.new-1.day,:end=>Time.new,:step=>2,:title=>'Foos',:vertical_label=>'Bars') # this will spit back a File.

== REQUIREMENTS:

rubyrrdtool requires RRDtool version 1.2 or later. Some RRD functions such
as rrddump are only available with the latest RRDtool.

== INSTALL:

Installation is standard. If you've installed the gem, you should be ready
to go. Otherwise, simply run:

* ruby extconf.rb
* make
* make install

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Adrian Pike

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.